Syllabus
========

Projects Seminar in FLOSS Game Development
------------------------------------------

Instructor - Ralph Bean <rjbpop@rit.edu>

Time/Location - TBD

IRC - TBD

Course web page? - TBD

Email list? - TBD

Wiki? - TBD

The source for this syllabus can be found at
http://github.com/ralphbean/rit-tos-projects-seminar

Goals of the course
---------------------


Having taken this course, students should be able to:

 - Demonstrate competence with modern FLOSS development tools and conventions
   (git, public forges, unit tests, bug trackers, wikis, etc..).
 - Demonstrate competence with modern web development technologies (HTML5,
   Javascript, CoffeeScript, CSS3, etc..).
 - Document their work progress, accomplishments, and pitfalls by way of weekly
   blog posts.
 - Work with and contribute to existing open source projects.
 - Build and manage a new project using open source tools.
 - Deploy a web application to the `cloud <http://rhcloud.com>`_.
 - Have a fun, open-source web-based game for their portfolio and/or to show
   off to their friends.

The spirit of the course
------------------------

While still a course where you will receive a letter grade, the spirit of the
course is intended to be both `open` and `fun`.  This is the first time the
course if being offered, so an experimental approach will be taken.

An `open` course -- students will have access to the 'document source' for the
syllabus and grading rubric.  While you are readding `the syllabus` right now,
as a student of the class you have a right to `fork the upstream repository
<http://github.com/ralphbean/tos-rit-projects-seminar>`_, make modifications,
and submit patches for review.  Barring a troll festival, this can create a fun,
dynamic environment in which the course curriculum can develop by the very same
mechanism being taught during the quarter (community-driven).

A `fun` course -- while the primary deliverable for the course is a working
web-based game, we are going to subject the course itself to `gamification`.
Instead of grading students' final projects individually, projects will be
pitted against one another through a scheme developed by the students
themselves, called the :doc:`final_project_rubric`.

For example, one way this could work is through simple accumulation of weighted
point values awarded for the presence of certain features: a game that works in
all modern browsers as well as on mobile devices gets +5 points, a game that
includes a velociraptor gets +3 points, etc...

Licensing
---------

All code developed by students in the course must be licensed (by the student)
under any one of the `licenses approved by the open source initiative
<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/category>`_.

Your code that you write is your code, with which you can do what you will;
true.  However, if you're unwilling to license code you write for an open source
course with an open source license, you're in the wrong course.

Schedule
--------

(TODO)...

Loosely, the first five weeks of the course will be based around the two
textbooks and the second five weeks will be devoted to project updates.

Grading
-------

Your final grade for the quarter will be derived from the following weights.

+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| Component                                              | Weight       |
+========================================================+==============+
|Class Participation (IRC, email list, in-class speaking)| 10%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
|Homework Assignments                                    | 10%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
|Programming Assignments                                 | 15%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
|Blog Updates                                            | 15%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
|Paper Prototype                                         | 10%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
|Final Project                                           | 40%          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+--------------+

----

*Class partitipation* will be subjectively determined by the instructor.

----

The *homework assignments* vary but include,
:doc:`homework/filling_out_the_survey`,
:doc:`homework/patching_the_syllabus`, and
:doc:`homework/patching_an_existing_project`.  Some of these assignments will be
completed in class.

----

*Programming assignments* are more in depth, but will amount to two deliverables
derived from one of the course's two textbooks, `Making Isometric Social
Real-Time Games with HTML5, CSS3, and Javascript
<http://www.amazon.com/Making-Isometric-Real-Time-JavaScript-ebook/dp/B005KOJ4DK/ref=dp_kinw_strp_1?ie=UTF8&m=AG56TWVU5XWC2>`_.

.. TODO -- add links to those two assignments

----

*Blog updates* -- students are required to keep a blog to which they post updates
about their investigates, progress, success, and pitfalls.  This blog can be
hosted anywhere, but must be added to the course `planet
<http://planet.teachingopensource.org/>`_.  You must make at least one blog
post per week to receive full credit.

.. TODO -- setup and add a link to a real planet.  Should students submit to
   big-planet-in-the-sky for teaching open source, as well?

----

Students' *paper prototypes* are presentations to the rest of the class on their
idea for their game, *before a single line of code is written*.  You will
be graded on preparation and presentation.

----

Your *final project* will be the culmination of the quarter's work and will be
graded according to the :doc:`final_project_rubric`.

Lightning Talks
---------------

Every Thursday for the first portion of class, any student has the opportunity
to give a `lightning talk <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightning_Talk>` on a
topic of their chosing.  Your lightning talk must be less than 5 minutes in
length and must be at least remotely related to the course material.

You will receive +1 extra credit points towards your final grade for every
lightning talk you give.
